[MUSIC]
Great to be back with you again.
In this video, Alex Mannela will
share where he's seen data and
analytics in action.
Adding value to business practices,
helping leaders make business
decisions and where it's having an impact
from data modeling to social media.
>> Thanks Dan.
I'm Alex Mannella and analytics and
data has played a critical role to me and
my career over the past 20 years.
Data and
analytics continues to add value to
organizations by examining
how decisions are made.
Next generation analytics can
automate the way decisions are made
in areas like making inventory management,
financial risk management, and
sensor data management.
We now have greater accessibility to data.
There is enhanced visibility
of relevant information and
massive amounts of data
are now easily accessible.
This results in improved reporting
to clients and stakeholders.
We can use retail, social and clinical
data to precisely customize offerings and
marketing campaigns to consumers.
We think about not just business to
consumer, but also business to business.
Think about how the ability to use
employee data to search for and discover
new needs can enable organizations to fine
tune optimal performance and efficiency.
By using data and
analytics to identify emerging trends,
organizations will be able to create new
service offerings for their consumers.
And new business models who execute them.
Using data and analytics isn't
limited to only high tech industries.
Whatever sector you operate in,
be it finance, healthcare, retail, or just
about anything else, data and analytics
can and will play a critical role.
Some examples include: discovering patterns
in large numbers of service requests for
a large bank; discovering which brands
are most similar based on social media
platforms and followers on each;
gaining insight
into an annuity policyholder behavior
based upon terabytes of consumer data.
Now, when one observes or collects data
firsthand, this is called primary data.
Primary data is very valuable in
getting consumer behavioral insights.
If asking a consumer what kind
of coffee they like or what
kind they intend to purchase, we don't
learn what they've actually purchased.
That's where secondary data comes in.
Secondary data is data that is
collected by someone or something else.
In this case, one could collect the data
from someone's credit card statement and
determine whether or
not they actually bought the coffee.
Both primary and secondary data are used
in building strategic decisions.
Big marketing decisions and
M and A decisions and beyond.
Right now, rapidly evolving technology and
the availability of real time data is
allowing organizations to use data
analytics as the true game changer and
the table stakes of the future.
Organizations are collecting massive
amounts of data about their customers, and
the customers are expecting that this
data is used intelligently and precisely.
Our clients are coming to us because their
customers are expecting that this data is
to be used to improve communications,
improve products,
and ultimately the services
that are being offered.
If an organization is going
to be an industry leader or
an innovator, analytics is key
to understanding correlation and
causation in turning
strategy into reality to.
Organizations today are facing information
overload as data increasingly comes at
them in new formats, and at faster speeds
and higher volumes than ever before.
They have to use a combination of
techniques, including simulation and
visualization to manage, manipulate and
organize this torrent of data.
So they can address the progressively
complex decisions they have to make
from operational control, to management
control, to strategic planning.
Our clients are now trying to figure out
how they build information insights.
The groups,
the analytic centers of excellence, and
how to take these organizations
to the next level to drive value.
What does the organizational
structure need to look like?
What does it mean?
It's not just the data and analytics.
If you can't get the data through
the organization efficiently,
it's just a statistical model or
it's just an answer.
Our clients are challenging us on
a daily basis to help them figure out
what an organization that fully uses
the data and analytics must look like.
What do the models look like?
Another vital source of
data is social media.
Generally, social media is defined as
a set of internet technologies that allow
users to generate and share content,
collaborate, exchange ideas and
form community with shared or
opposing interests.
Social media can be good or bad.
So many clients think there is so
much to find, but
there is a lot of noise in social media.
So how do you extract that
signal from the noise?
It's important to look at data
collected from social media platforms,
along with all other relevant datasets.
Social media is a powerful platform but
it's one that many organizations
are chasing, and don't have a sound social
media or overall integrated data strategy.
When you think about data and analytics,
you need to think about the social
media strategy in the organization.
What can someone bring
from a social perspective?
Being able to challenge how
social media is being used, and
if it's going to be used from
an analytics perspective.
Whatever social media data an organization
is trying to use, it's very important that
you tie it to other relevant data
sets to validate findings and
ensure the accuracy of
what you are projecting.
We've seen our organizations
misuse data from social media and
not tie it back to other data assets
that they have into the analytics and
models that they are building.
When used properly, data and analytics
can change how organizations operate,
allowing them to become more efficient and
have greater impact on their bottom line
and most importantly, their customers.
Now let's look at how data and analytics
can be used in the retail industry.
Companies can use consumer purchase data,
social networks,
and geolocation information
to optimize product mixes and
make decisions related
to product development.
For example, a retailer can use data
generated from consumer mobile devices for
location based sales and offerings.
Take a local drug store where
a customer has their mobile
app installed on their phone.
The drugstore can push
a notification if you are nearby
because it uses your geolocation
information efficiently.
Organizations can also use data from
mobile devices for payments and
purchase patterns.
The organization can go well
beyond just pushing offers,
but using the data and analytics to
optimize products and segments is
one of the core components that underlies
social media and data analytics.
The operations department at the same
retailer can evaluate store traffic
patterns to improve product placement and
point of sales processes.
And finally, the service
department can evaluate online and
real time interactions to improve and
tailor in-store and
post-sale experiences.
Another example of data analytics in
action is from the healthcare industry.
In terms of product development, analysis
of disease trends in clinical studies
can direct, and optimize research and
development efforts for drug discovery.
Data can help bring new drugs
to market more quickly, and
more efficiently, using things like
claims data to more efficiently
communicate with policyholders on
how they can manage their health and
prevent specific disease or illnesses from
happening, diabetes or the common cold.
Analysis of patient history and
disease patterns allows sales and
marketing teams to target patients
with care or lifestyle improvements.
By using claims data and
patient demographics,
hospitals can improve operations by
optimizing treatment selections.
And in terms of customer service, health
care providers can improve treatments and
manage chronic illnesses through data
collected from ongoing patient monitoring.
As the processing capacity of data
analytics continues to increase, it opens
the door to a broad range of advanced
algorithms and modeling techniques that
organizations can employ to draw a valuable
insights from data and analytics.
There are different ways to model
structured and unstructured data.
Of course there
are the traditional methods, but
we also see many new modelling techniques
emerging to handle all the different types
of data that is available.
For the analytics individual or
for the advanced data scientist,
there are a portfolio of methods that
can be used today, more so than ever,
given the advancements in processing
power, mathematics, data storage and
most importantly visualization.
In summary, what has fundamentally
changed are three critical things.
Having the right people, the right tools,
and the right algorithms in place to take
advantage of the massive amounts of data
that organizations have access to today.
>> Thanks Alex, for those terrific
insights into data and analytics.
In this video, we've learned how data and
analytics is helping add value to business
practices And becoming a critical game
changer in making business decisions.